when Joshua called the rubra nights the
gadites and half the tribe of manasseh
and said to them you have kept all that
moses the servant of the lord commanded
you and have obeyed my voice in all that
I commanded you you have not left your
brethren these many days up to this day
but have kept the charge of the
commandment of the Lord your God and now
the Lord your God has given rest to your
brethren as he promised them now
therefore return and go to your tents
and to the land of your possession which
Moses the servant of the Lord gave you
on the other side of the Jordan but take
careful heed to do the commandment and
the law which Moses the servant of the
lord commanded you to love the Lord your
God to walk in all his ways
to keep his Commandments to hold fast to
him and to serve him with all your heart
and with all your soul
so Joshua blessed them and send them
away
and they went to their tents now to half
the tribe of manasseh Moses had given a
possession invasion but to the other
half of it Joshua gave a possession
among their brethren on this side of the
Jordan westwood and indeed when Joshua
sent them away to their tents he blessed
them and spoke to them returned with
much riches to your tents with very much
livestock with silver with gold with
bronze with iron and with very much
clothing divide the spoil of your
enemies with your brethren so the
children of Reuben the children of GAD
and half the tribe of Manasseh returned
and departed from the children of Israel
at Shiloh which is in the land of Canaan
to go to the country of Gilead to the
land of their possession which they had
obtained according to the word of the
Lord by the hand of Moses and when he
came to the region of the Jordan which
is in the land of Canaan the children of
Reuben the children of GAD and half the
tribe of Manasseh built an altar there
by the Jordan a great impressive altar
now the children of Israel heard someone
say behold the children of Reuben the
children of GAD and half the tribe of
Manasseh have built an altar on the
frontier of the land of Canaan in the
region of the Jordan on the children of
Israel side and when the children of
Israel heard of it
the whole congregation of the children
of Israel gathered together at Shiloh to
go to war against them then the children
of Israel sent phineas the son of
Eleazar the priest to the children of
Reuben to the children of GAD and to
half the tribe of Manasseh into the land
of Gilead and with him ten rulers one
ruler each from the chief house of every
tribe of Israel and each one was the
head of the house of his father among
the divisions of his
then they came to the children of Reuben
to the children of GAD and to half the
tribe of manasseh to the land of Gilead
and they spoke with them
thus says the whole congregation of the
Lord what treachery is this that you
have committed against the God of Israel
to turn away this day from following the
Lord in that you have built for
yourselves an altar that you might rebel
this day against the Lord is the
iniquity of peor not enough for us from
which we are not cleansed till this day
although there was a plague in the
congregation of the Lord but that you
must turn away this day from following
the Lord and it shall be if you rebel
today against the Lord that tomorrow he
will be angry with the whole
congregation of Israel nevertheless if
the land of your possession is unclean
then cross over to the land of the
possession of the Lord for the Lord's
Tabernacle stands and take possession
among us but do not rebel against the
Lord no rebel against us by building
yourselves in altar besides the altar of
the Lord our God
did not Achan the son of Zera commit a
trespass in the accursed thing and wrath
fell and all the congregation of Israel
and that man did not perish alone in his
iniquity then the children of Reuben the
children of GAD and half the tribe of
Manasseh answered and said to the heads
of the divisions of Israel the Lord God
of gods the Lord God of gods he knows
and let Israel itself know if it is in
rebellion or if in treachery against the
Lord do not save us this day
if we have built ourselves an altar to
turn from following the Lord or if to
offer on it burnt offerings or grain
offerings or if to offer peace offerings
on it let the Lord Himself require an
account but in fact we have done it for
fear for a reason saying in time to come
your descendants may speak to our
descendants saying what have you to do
with the Lord God of Israel for the Lord
has made the Jordan a border between you
and us you children of Reuben and
children of dad you have no part in the
Lord so your descendants would make our
descendants cease fearing the Lord
therefore we said let us now prepare to
build ourselves under Walter not the
burnt offering nor for sacrifice but
that it may be a witness between you and
us and our generations after us that we
may perform the service of the Lord
before him with our burnt offerings with
our sacrifices and with our peace
offerings that your descendants may not
say to our descendants in time to come
you have no part in the Lord
therefore we said that it will be when
they say this to us or to our
generations in time to come that we may
say here is the replica of the altar of
the Lord which our fathers made though
not for burnt offerings not for
sacrifices but it is a witness between
you and us far be it from us that we
should rebel against the Lord and turn
from following the Lord this day to
build an altar for burnt offerings for
grain offerings or for sacrifices
besides the altar of the Lord our God
which is before his tabernacle
now when Phineas the priests and the
rulers of the congregation the heads of
the divisions of Israel who were with
him heard the words that the children of
Reuben the children of GAD and the
children of Manasseh spoke it pleased
them then phineas the son of Eleazar the
priest said to the children of Reuben
the children of GAD and the children of
Manasseh this day we perceived that the
Lord is among us because you have not
committed this treachery against the
Lord now you have delivered the children
of Israel out of the hand of the Lord
and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the
priest and the rulers returned from the
children of Reuben and the children of
GAD from the land of Gilead to the land
of Canaan to the children of Israel and
brought back word to them so the thing
pleased the children of Israel and the
children of Israel blessed God they
spoke no more of going against them in
battle to destroy the land where the
children of Reuben and gerd dwelt the
children of Reuben and the children of
GAD called the altar witness for it is a
witness between us
that the Lord is gone
[Music]